# 🧑 About me

So a few weeks ago I said what I felt like was my goodbyes[¹] in a longer post about the importance of backing up your posts[²], and I've checked in once or twice since then. No comments. And while I understand a lot of writing online is just putting it out there and trusting it might find the right person, one day, eventually, cohost's design means that I don't even know if that's actually true. Full text search being not a thing there, you have to tag with hashtags, and hope for the best. In a year and a half there, I never really felt like I fit in. I'm going to mourn this platform long after it eventually goes. There's a part of me that still believes that the beating heart of the internet is people making things and putting them online for other people to find. As far as social media goes, this could've been a return to that transitional period, where people were still interested in creating. "Posting" has always been a dim simulacrum, whether it's at 140, 280, or 500 characters.


### Footnotes

¹ Buwhaha 

² Hahaha

## Gemtext cheatsheet

This is a quick "cheatsheet" intended for people who haven't been writing Gemtext for long or who need their memory refreshed after a break.  If you're completely new to Gemtext and you need things explained in a more detail, you should check out the full length introduction:

=> gemtext.gmi	A quick introduction to "gemtext" markup

### Text

Here's the basics of how text works in Gemtext:

* Long lines get wrapped by the client to fit the screen
* Short lines *don't* get joined together
* Write paragraphs as single long lines
* Blank lines are rendered verbatim

### Links

At the bare minimum, a link line consists of just the characters `=>` and a URL.  Here's a link to this page:

```
=> gemini://geminiprotocol.net/docs/cheatsheet.gmi
```

But you can include labels with links, and probably should most of the time.  Labels are separated from the URL by one or more spaces or tabs:

```
=> gemini://geminiprotocol.net/docs/cheatsheet.gmi	Gemtext cheatsheet
```

### Headings

You get three levels of heading:

```
# Heading

## Sub-heading

### Sub-subheading
```

### Lists

You get one kind of list and you can't nest them:

```
* Mercury
* Gemini
* Apollo
```

### Quotes

Here's a quote from Maciej Cegłowski:

```
> I contend that text-based websites should not exceed in size the major works of Russian literature.
```

### Pre-fromatted text

Lines which start with ``` will cause clients to toggle in and out of ordinary rendering mode and preformatted mode.  In preformatted mode, Gemtext syntax is ignored so links etc. will not be rendered, and text will appear in a monospace font.

```code for freebsd
pkg install bastille
=========================
Getting started with bastille -> https://bastillebsd.org/getting-started/
=========================

sysrc bastille_enable=YES
=========================


/usr/local/etc/bastille/bastille.conf
=========================
bastille_tzdata="Europe/Bucharest"
bastille_zfs_zpool="zroot"
=========================

/etc/pf.conf
=========================
ext_if="vtnet0"

set block-policy return
scrub in on $ext_if all fragment reassemble
set skip on lo

table <jails> persist
nat on $ext_if from <jails> to any -> ($ext_if:0)
rdr-anchor "rdr/*"

block in all
pass out quick keep state
antispoof for $ext_if inet
pass in inet proto tcp from any to any port ssh flags S/SA keep state
=========================

### Bastille Commands Used
=========================
bastille bootstrap 13.2-RELEASE update
bastille create -T <name> <13.2-RELEASE> <ip>
bastille bootstrap http://gitlab.com/bastillebsd-templates/nginx
bastille template <jail name> bastillebsd-templates/nginx
bastille service <ALL/jail name> <service> status
bastille rdr <jail_name > tcp 70 70 [port] [port]

### Bastille Commands Used 2
=========================
bastille bootstrap 13.2-RELEASE update
bastille create -T <name> <13.2-RELEASE> <ip>
bastille bootstrap http://gitlab.com/bastillebsd-templates/nginx
bastille template <jail name> bastillebsd-templates/nginx
bastille service <ALL/jail name> <service> status
bastille rdr <jail_name > tcp 70 70 [port] [port]
```

=> / ⏮️ Back to my homepage